The What to Do tool is a web-based, decision support tool that aims to help conservation practitioners prioritize implementation of management actions in the best places. To achieve this, it uses integer programming techniques to build and solve optimization problems. Although similar in appearance to the Where to Work tool, this tool is designed to provide different insights. The Where to Work tool is designed to help conservation practitioners identify new places that complement existing conservation areas, and the What to Do tool is designed to help conservation practitioners identify how best to manage a network of different places. Since the results depend on input data -- and such data may omit important considerations -- the tool is intended to help inform decision making. Here we provide a brief overview of the tool. Please refer the manual for further details.

#### Data

The tool uses a specialized data format. Specifically, the tool requires an Excel Spreadsheet that contains data for all the management actions, conservation features (e.g., species, habitat types, ecosystem services). It can also optionally use an ESRI Shapefile delineating the locations of the places (hereafter, sites) available for management. To create the Excel Spreadsheet, the What Template Maker tool should be used. Briefly, the What Template Maker tool asks questions about the different sites, different features, and different management actions. Next, after answering these questions, a template Excel Spreadsheet can be downloaded from the What Template Maker tool. You can then open the Excel Spreadsheet and fill in all the empty cells to provide data for the What to Do tool (such as the relative costs of management actions, and consequences of implementing different actions). After filling out the template Excel Spreadsheet, it can be imported into the What to Do tool and these data can be used to identify solutions.

#### User interface

The tool has three main components that comprise the user interface. These components include (i) buttons on the top of the map, (ii) a left sidebar for generating and evaluating solutions, and (iii) a right overlay for visualizing data. We cover each of these components below.

**Map buttons:** These buttons provide the following functionality.

<ul>
<li><div class = "middle-icon"><span class = "leaflet-touch"><span class = "leaflet-bar easy-button-container leaflet-control"><button class = "easy-button-button leaflet-bar-part"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-question"></button></span></span><p>Open this help popup again.</p></div></li>

<li><div class = "middle-icon"><span class = "leaflet-touch"><span class = "leaflet-bar easy-button-container leaflet-control"><button class = "easy-button-button leaflet-bar-part"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-home"></button></span></span><p>Zoom the map to show the full extent of the data.</p></div></li>

<li><div class = "middle-icon"><span class = "leaflet-touch"><span class = "history-control leaflet-bar leaflet-control horizontal"><a class = "history-back-button"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-caret-left"></a><a class = "history-forward-button"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-caret-right"></a></span></span><p>Switch between previous spatial extents on the map.</p></div></li>

<li><div class = "middle-icon"><span class = "leaflet-touch"><span class = "leaflet-bar easy-button-container leaflet-control"><button class = "easy-button-button leaflet-interactive leaflet-bar-part"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-print"></button></span></span><p>Save the map as an image.</p></div></li>

<li><div class = "middle-icon"><span class = "leaflet-touch"><span class = "leaflet-bar easy-button-container leaflet-control"><button class = "easy-button-button leaflet-interactive leaflet-bar-part"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-globe"></button></span></span><p>Hover over the button to select a different base map.</p></div></li>

</ul>
</br>

**Left sidebar:** The left sidebar contains panes for generating and evaluating solutions. It also contains panes that provide contact details for the development team, and acknowledgments for individuals, organizations, and underlying software that have contributed to the tool. We will describe each of these panes below. To open one of these panes, click on the matching icon in the sidebar.
<ul>
<li><div class = "top-icon"><span class = "leaflet-touch"><span class = "leaflet-bar easy-button-container leaflet-control"><button class = "easy-button-button leaflet-interactive leaflet-bar-part"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-rocket"></button></span></span><p>The <em>New solution pane</em> is used to generate new solutions. Here, you can set parameters to control the optimization process. For example, you can use sliders to specify the goal for each feature (i.e., specifying the minimum desired amount for each feature to be secured within a solution) (under <em>Goals panel</em>). You can also use sliders to specify the relative importance of each goal (under <em>Relative importance panel</em>). Additionally, you can specify settings to customize the optimization process (under <em>Settings panel</em>). These settings include imposing a limit (budget) on the maximum amount of area that can be selected. After specifying all these parameters, you can enter a name for the new solution, select a display color for it, and then click the "Optimize" button to generate a new solution (using inputs along the bottom of the <em>New solution pane</em>). Once the optimization process has finished, the new solution will then appear in <em>Table of contents pane</em>, and the <em>Solution results pane</em> will open so you can evaluate the solution.</p></div></li>
<li><div class = "top-icon"><span class = "leaflet-touch"><span class = "leaflet-bar easy-button-container leaflet-control"><button class = "easy-button-button leaflet-interactive leaflet-bar-part"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-tachometer-alt"></button></span></span><p>The <em>Solution results pane</em> is used to evaluate solutions. It provides statistics that summarize various characteristics of the solution (under the <em>Summary panel</em>), such as the total cost of the solution and the number of sites allocated to each management action. It also provides pie charts to visualize the consequences of implementing the solution (under the <em>Features panel</em>). These pie charts show the the goal for each feature (shown in blue), as well as the expected amount of each feature given the management actions that are currently being implemented (shown in green) and those prioritized by the solution (shown in red). In addition to the pie charts, this information can be viewed in tabular form (i.e., by clicking on the table button).</p></div></li>
<li><div class = "middle-icon"><span class = "leaflet-touch"><span class = "leaflet-bar easy-button-container leaflet-control"><button class = "easy-button-button leaflet-interactive leaflet-bar-part"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-download"></button></span></span><p>The <em>Download pane</em> can be used to download data and results. Specifically, the input data used to generate solutions can be downloaded. Additionally, solutions can be downloaded too, along with statistics summarizing their performance.</p></div></li>
<li><div class = "middle-icon"><span class = "leaflet-touch"><span class = "leaflet-bar easy-button-container leaflet-control"><button class = "easy-button-button leaflet-interactive leaflet-bar-part"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-envelope"></button></span></span><p>The <em>Contact pane</em> provides information for contacting the development team.</p></div></li>
<li><div class = "middle-icon"><span class = "leaflet-touch"><span class = "leaflet-bar easy-button-container leaflet-control"><button class = "easy-button-button leaflet-interactive leaflet-bar-part"><icon class = "fa fa-xs fa-heart"></button></span></span><p>The <em>Acknowledgments pane</em> details all the contributions and support provided by various individuals and organizations. Additionally, this pane describes all the open source software that underpins the tool.</p></div></li>

</ul>
</br>

**Right overlay:** The right overlay contains drop-down menus for visualizing data and solutions on the map. By selecting different options in this overlay, you can specify which values should be shown on the map. The first menu (under <em>Select dataset</em>) is used to specify whether the values shown on the map should be obtained from the project dataset that will be used to generate new solutions, or from a previously generated solution. The second menu (under <em>Select layer</em> is used to specify exactly which values -- from the dataset selected in the first menu -- should be shown. For example, under the second menu, you can select to visualize values describing the costs of implementing actions, current implementation status, consequences of implementing different actions for different features, or a solution.
